hello and welcome to another episode of
movie spoiler alerts today we're talking
about the 2015 film the Martian so let's
get started the film takes place in the
year 2035 with the Ares 3 crew exploring
the surface of Mars a dust storm forces
them to evacuate the planet and return
to the orbiting vessel Hermes however
during the evacuation astronaut and
botanist Mark Watney is struck by some
debris and lost in the storm and is
presumed dead the rest of the crew
leaves the planet unable to search for
Watney Watney awakens after the storm
due to a low oxygen warning and is able
to make his way back to the base his
suit was damaged in the storm which
caused his life-support readings to show
him his dead
Watney realizes that he is now alone and
will have to wait four years for the
next NASA crew to come and find him he
also realizes that the Hermes team has
no idea that he is alive
Watney does some calculations and
realizes that he only has enough food to
last him 309 days primarily with a diet
based on potatoes and needs to find a
way to make more food in order to
survive
Watney uses his skills as a botanist to
find a way to make a hospital
environment for the crops inside of the
baits utilizing a variety of devices and
clever tools back on earth after a
viewing satellite photos NASA realizes
that Watney has survived NASA however
decides initially to not inform watney's
crew aboard the Hermes as they still
believe that Watney died on Mars and
finding out that they left him would
make it so the crew is unable to
complete their mission Watney finds a
way using the Pathfinder probe which has
been silent since 1997 to communicate
with NASA through a very rudimentary
system eventually Watney through the
help of NASA is able to set up a sort of
email system which he can more
efficiently communicate with NASA what
he finds out that the crew is unaware of
his survival and miss furious then NASA
decides to inform the Hermes crew and
they are shocked by what they find out
NASA works quickly to build a rocket
with enough food to supplement Watney
until the next Mars landing but in their
haste the ship is improperly built and
the ship explodes after takeoff the
story of Watney
trapped on Mars has now become a global
affair the China National Space
Administration offers to help NASA
giving them technology for a classified
booster rocket through a series of
events the crew aboard the Hermes
decides instead of landing back on earth
they will use the Chinese booster to
resupply the Hermes and the crew heads
back to Mars which should be an 18-month
journey the Hermes crew plans to travel
close to Mars and Watney will use a
short-range vessel known as the MAV to
travel off of Mars surface in order to
rendezvous with Hermes Watney does some
serious modifications to the MAV pretty
much stripping it down to the bare bones
in order to reduce its mass to help him
travel further into space the Hermes
crew remotely controls the math as the
extreme g-forces knock Watney
unconscious as he leaves the atmosphere
when Watney awakes he uses a nitrogen
gas propelled pack to push himself away
from the map but still is too far away
from the Hermes
he then pierces his glove of his
pressure suit and uses the escaping air
to thrust him closer to the Hermes the
crew intercepts him and as NASA and the
whole world listened they rejoice upon
hearing that he is safe the film ends
showing the crew several years later in
their new lives with Watney returning to
be a survival instructor training new
astronaut candidates so that was the
spoilers for the Martian if you have
another film you'd like to see me spoil
please let me know in the comments below
check out movie's spoiler alerts on our
various forms of social media and
remember to Like and subscribe thanks
for watching